Was exploring how things like equations, labels, and tags work in Quarto and Rmarkdown. I came to the conclusion that everyone is stabbing around for different 
consisten ways to use symbols, but we end up with using different symbols for different things. Latex is nice that way because everything is just `\`. HTML is
also consistent in that everything is `< >`. The reason we all like markdown is because it is less verbose. But also markdown has this thing of being kind of 
human readable and even more than that just relies on human idioms we already use like dashes or stars for lists, and putting stars around words as a kind of
emphasis.

On the other hand, other than lists, and maybe titles, there really isn't anything else in markdown that is just organic that way.

I'm also finding myself frustrated by different "opinions" (in the programming sense) about visual previews offered by Rmarkdown (at least in RStudio) and
Quarto (again in RStudio, but I think the engine is the same elsewhere). Different choices as far as equations, labels, tags, and cross references.

Pandoc is mighty and is definitely a thing. But I keep thinking: what would be more internally consistent and maintain the simplicity and readability of
markdown?

I jotted down the idea below thinking that

- What we are really doing is having an alternation of plain text and domain-specific "environments"
- Yes, that is already how TeX works. And that's why it's awesome.
- Could there be a more shorthandy way to have
  1. Internally consistent notation
  2. Environments
  that is a bit less heavy-handed than TeX.
- More and more people are encountering HTML, and the bracket thing. So it might be ok.
- TeX really is the master in terms of environments
- HTML/CSS really is the master in terms of styling as well as the class/id structure.

Then I swung back here and noticed I was putting that idea down years ago.

I think it really comes down to two options:
- TeX "lite". Some kind of backslash syntax with getting some shorthand stuff free (like lists)
  but adding in a class/id system.
- HTML-like syntax to create environments.
- I'd like to convert some documents to LaTeX and see what they look like. Examples I find online
  are always showing lots of features, so I don't get a sense of how unobtrusive it *could* be.

Some shorthands I strongly believe in:
`/italic/`
`-strikethrough-`
`_underline_`
`*bold*`
`@type:reference` ---reflects @-notation in social media
`[type:reference]` ---consistent with url links and wiki notation
`$` and `$$`

Math is

I'd be ok with 
`*italic*`
`**bold**` 
as long as those are the only options.


Environments:
- equation
- code listing
- code run
- figure
- music
- diagram
- text enhancement

Whenever you double-click on an environment, you can edit raw.


```
<head>
Stuff can ignore.
</head>


<document "Document Title" />

<section "First Section" >
asdfasdfasfd
asdfasdf

<subsection "Example 1" >
asdfasdfasdf
asdfasdfasfd
asfdasfasf
<subsection>

<subsection "Example 2" >
asdfasdfasdf
asdfasdfasdf
asdfasfdasdf
asdfasdfasfd
</subsection>

</section>

<section> Second Section
asdfasdf
asdfasdf
asdfasfd

<subsection> Consider this first
asdfasdf
asdfasdf
asdfasdf

<subsection> Consider this second
asdfasdf
asdfasdf
asdfasdf
asdfasdf

</document>


<section["sec one"]> Some Section
<section:1> <subsection>
<section:2> <subsubsection>

In <ref sec:"sec one"> we discuss

<equation label=somelabel>

</equation>

<equation[arg, arg, arg]{k=v, k=v, k=v} \frac{a}{b} />
<eq \frac{a}{b} />

<r print(hello) /> There are <r num_marbles /> marbles.


<figure{class=sadf; id=asdfs; label=fig1; src=""} />


<code python, label=asdfasdf, run=F>

</code>

<script python, label=asdfasdf, run=T>

</script>

<list>
<item>
<item>
<item>
</list>

<xref eq:asdfasfds> <cite src:asdfasdfasdf>
<xref code:asdfasdfasd>

<script[r] print(hello) >

<list[A,#,i]
- 
  -
    -
/>

```


Some other shorthand ideas

```
<section><title>The title</title>
asdfasdfsadf
asdfasdfasdf
asdfasfdasdf
</section>
```

```
<# The Title
asdfasdfsadf
asdfasdfasdf
asdfasfdasdf

<## Sub Section

<## Sub Section
```

```
<$math math math/$>
```

Equiv to `\begin{equation}`
```
<$$
asdfsafd
asdfasdf
asdfasdf
/$>
```

```
<tex:align

/tex:align>
```

```
<-
- one
- two
- three
/->
```

```
<#
# one
# two
# three
/#>
```

```
<h1> Heading
asdf
asdf
<h2> Subheading
asdfasdf
asfdasdf
<h2> Subheading
asdfasdf
asdfasdf
```







